


Manager:
* Mehr über die Projekte, als über die Aufgaben


IT-only:
* Scrum. (e.g. Scrum-Master, Manage Team assigned tasks, etc)
The software development is almost always done in a team. 
Effective teamwork can bring great results, but it needs to be well organized. 
The communication between the members of a group, a proper distribution of work, 
setting priorities or time scheduling are responsibilities of a project manager. 

Why is the work distribution important?
A proper work distribution can increase the productivity and improve the quality of outcoming product. 
There are few common mistakes that can be done:
- not knowing or not paying attention to the abilities and key skills of team members. 
This could lead to time waste and frustration among the developers.
- on the other hand not providing the less experienced employees new challenges. 
A good manager should give the team members a possibility to develop themselves, 
otherwise people can lose the interest in work.
- to give too much work to the most productive, most experienced or most responsible member of a team. 
An overworked employee would not do his best, would feel stressed and used, and it would spread the rest of the team.
As we see the work distribution can be a challenging task that requires not only management or executive skills, 
but also understanding of the capabilities and psychology of team members. 
This problem is not specific to software development, 
however it is applicable and very important for people working in IT.

Why 'normal' managers could'nt do this:
Experience in managing would be beneficial to this, but in software developement it is especially critical
to have at least some knowledge of the tasks one distributes to others. For example it can be harmful to
the development process if managers don't understand the real value of testing or underestimate the cost
of implementing a feature.

* Managing the interaction between different Software components (eg. libraries etc.)
Defining the project boundaries can be a challenging task. 
For software development it is essential to determine the standarts of the work,
APIs, code quality, architecture and to manage resources(e.g. time, money, RAM, CPU-Power). 
This has to be done by a project manager. However this management activity requires knowledges 
and experiense in computer science. Technical limitations has to be considered. 
Unresaonable time demands for example or money limitations can lead to degradation of the quality 
or in the worst case to not accomplisching the task, which is waste of time and money.

* Good sotware reflects to domain it tries to solve.
Most software is developed for other industries than our own. So developer have to understand the domain they are working in. We can't build a banking software without understanding how accounting works.
To achieve this communication with domain experts is essential. 
Although translation between different teams/ departments is a typical managment activity in software development it requires a requires a thorough understanding of our industry.


