Here are four different Interpretations of the sentence:

The game must collect and display at least 5 different statistics.


Interpretation 1:
    The game collects statistics about the users progress and behaviour, and will make them
    available through either showing it in-game or through sharing it on facebook or other social media.


Interpretation 2:
    There will be collected a lot of information about the behavior of the application, like memory usage
    or CPU-utilarisation, effective multicore-usage or GPU-load and settings?


Interpretation for the Originality Challenge:
    We consider, that the statistics to be collected is a questionnary with several questions (at least 5),
    which have to be answered by every player. The questions should ask for how much the player liked the game
    and (maybe) some (private) information about him if he wants to share. Those statistics would then be
    send to the developers and might be displayed in a nice fashion for them (within their part of the game).




Question 1:
    With 'The game' is there ment to be collected information about the game (and or it's mechanics)
    or about the application? Is the to-be-collected information supposed to reflect in-game status
    or general information like CPU-usage, RAM-usage, execution time or bandwidth?


Question 2:
    Is 'The game' supposed to save the collected information or is it okay to begin anew each start?

Question 3:
    Does 'displaying' mean that the statistics is somehow available for the player
    or might it only be supposed for developers through a (debug) console or the like?
    Display in what form, e.g. 'raw' data in a table or does it have to be a nice-looking graphic?

Question 4:
    Should the statistics differ in the their topic, eg. should they be closely related
    or cover broader area? How many of them should relate to the players individual
    activity, and how many different statistics are we (the developers) allowed to collect?

Question 5:
    The statistics could be saved as a chronological list of events
    which allows us to have a clear understanding of when and what
    things happend and provide easier support if the player experiences.
    Or we could save them in a tablerized way which would have allow
    us to compare the different metrics.
    For player related statistics we recommend the second option.
    Which option would you like us to implement?




Answer 1:
    The collected statistics should be game-related. That is, the game should collect
    statistics about its behavior and mechanics. But we like your idea of displaying
    the ping and currently used bandwidth. Besides the in-game statistics, this should
    also be displayed.

Answer 2:
    That depends on the kind of statistics.

Answer 3:
    The statistics should always be available for the player to view. Otherwise, collecting
    statistics doesn't make much sense. We are not interested in the development process.
    If the developers need to display some internal data for themselves, they very well
    may do that, but don't bother the player with that internal gibberish.

Answer 4:
    You (the developers) must collect at least 5 different statistics. The statistics
    should be sensible and not too arbitrary. That is, the player should be able to
    retrieve information useful to him to evaluate his gameplay. Therefore, the "topic"
    or "broader area" depends on the type of game and the possibly collectible statistics.

Answer 5:
    Yes, the first part is a good idea. What is being collected is dependent on the kind
    of statistics. This could, e.g. be a replay function where the player can review the
    entire game and evaluate his gameplay. The second one could also make sense if the
    collected statistics allow for displaying them in a tabular fashion. This could be
    overall time spent, built units, used resources, etc. Depending on what the game
    provides to collect. We like both ideas. Realize them both if it helps the player
    to understand the implications of the data for his game better.

